docs/content/commands/npm-access.md, before:

---
title: npm-access
section: 1
description: Set access level on published packages
---

### Synopsis

<!-- AUTOGENERATED USAGE DESCRIPTIONS START -->
<!-- automatically generated, do not edit manually -->
<!-- see lib/commands/access.js -->

```bash
npm access public [<package>]
npm access restricted [<package>]
npm access grant <read-only|read-write> <scope:team> [<package>]
npm access revoke <scope:team> [<package>]
npm access 2fa-required [<package>]
npm access 2fa-not-required [<package>]
npm access ls-packages [<user>|<scope>|<scope:team>]
npm access ls-collaborators [<package> [<user>]]
npm access edit [<package>]
```

<!-- automatically generated, do not edit manually -->
<!-- see lib/commands/access.js -->

<!-- AUTOGENERATED USAGE DESCRIPTIONS END -->

### Description

Used to set access controls on private packages.

For all of the subcommands, `npm access` will perform actions on the packages
in the current working directory if no package name is passed to the
subcommand.

* public / restricted (deprecated):
  Set a package to be either publicly accessible or restricted.

* grant / revoke (deprecated):
  Add or remove the ability of users and teams to have read-only or read-write
  access to a package.

* 2fa-required / 2fa-not-required (deprecated):
  Configure whether a package requires that anyone publishing it have two-factor
  authentication enabled on their account.

* ls-packages (deprecated):
  Show all of the packages a user or a team is able to access, along with the
  access level, except for read-only public packages (it won't print the whole
  registry listing)

* ls-collaborators (deprecated):
  Show all of the access privileges for a package. Will only show permissions
  for packages to which you have at least read access. If `<user>` is passed in,
  the list is filtered only to teams _that_ user happens to belong to.

* edit (not implemented)

### Details

`npm access` always operates directly on the current registry, configurable
from the command line using `--registry=<registry url>`.

Unscoped packages are *always public*.

Scoped packages *default to restricted*, but you can either publish them as
public using `npm publish --access=public`, or set their access as public using
`npm access public` after the initial publish.

You must have privileges to set the access of a package:

* You are an owner of an unscoped or scoped package.
* You are a member of the team that owns a scope.
* You have been given read-write privileges for a package, either as a member
  of a team or directly as an owner.

If you have two-factor authentication enabled then you'll be prompted to
provide an otp token, or may use the `--otp=...` option to specify it on
the command line.

If your account is not paid, then attempts to publish scoped packages will
fail with an HTTP 402 status code (logically enough), unless you use
`--access=public`.

Management of teams and team memberships is done with the `npm team` command.

### Configuration

<!-- AUTOGENERATED CONFIG DESCRIPTIONS START -->
<!-- automatically generated, do not edit manually -->
<!-- see lib/utils/config/definitions.js -->
#### `registry`

* Default: "https://registry.npmjs.org/"
* Type: URL

The base URL of the npm registry.

<!-- automatically generated, do not edit manually -->
<!-- see lib/utils/config/definitions.js -->

#### `otp`

* Default: null
* Type: null or String

This is a one-time password from a two-factor authenticator. It's needed
when publishing or changing package permissions with `npm access`.

If not set, and a registry response fails with a challenge for a one-time
password, npm will prompt on the command line for one.

<!-- automatically generated, do not edit manually -->
<!-- see lib/utils/config/definitions.js -->

<!-- AUTOGENERATED CONFIG DESCRIPTIONS END -->

### See Also

* [`libnpmaccess`](https://npm.im/libnpmaccess)
* [npm team](/commands/npm-team)
* [npm publish](/commands/npm-publish)
* [npm config](/commands/npm-config)
* [npm registry](/using-npm/registry)

Commit message:

feat(rewrite): rewrite `npm access`
BREAKING CHANGE: renames most of the `npm access` subcommands

 - `edit`, having never been implemented, is removed
 - `public` is now `set status=public`
 - `restricted` is now `set status=private`
 - `ls-packages` is now `list packages`
 - `ls-collaborators` is now `list collaborators`
 - `2fa-required` is now `set mfa=publish`
 - `2fa-not-required` is now `set mfa=none`
 - `set mfa=automation` is added
 - output is no longer in json by default

Usage:
npm access list packages [<user>|<scope>|<scope:team> [<package>]
npm access list collaborators [<package> [<user>]]
npm access get status [<package>]
npm access set status=public|private [<package>]
npm access set mfa=false|publish|automation [<package>]
npm access grant <read-only|read-write> <scope:team> [<package>]
npm access revoke <scope:team> [<package>]

Options:
[--json] [--otp <otp>] [--registry <registry>]

docs/content/commands/npm-access.md, after:

---
title: npm-access
section: 1
description: Set access level on published packages
---

### Synopsis

<!-- AUTOGENERATED USAGE DESCRIPTIONS START -->
<!-- automatically generated, do not edit manually -->
<!-- see lib/commands/access.js -->

```bash
npm access list packages [<user>|<scope>|<scope:team> [<package>]
npm access list collaborators [<package> [<user>]]
npm access get status [<package>]
npm access set status=public|private [<package>]
npm access set mfa=none|publish|automation [<package>]
npm access grant <read-only|read-write> <scope:team> [<package>]
npm access revoke <scope:team> [<package>]
```

<!-- automatically generated, do not edit manually -->
<!-- see lib/commands/access.js -->

<!-- AUTOGENERATED USAGE DESCRIPTIONS END -->

### Description

Used to set access controls on private packages.

For all of the subcommands, `npm access` will perform actions on the packages
in the current working directory if no package name is passed to the
subcommand.

* public / restricted (deprecated):
  Set a package to be either publicly accessible or restricted.

* grant / revoke (deprecated):
  Add or remove the ability of users and teams to have read-only or read-write
  access to a package.

* 2fa-required / 2fa-not-required (deprecated):
  Configure whether a package requires that anyone publishing it have two-factor
  authentication enabled on their account.

* ls-packages (deprecated):
  Show all of the packages a user or a team is able to access, along with the
  access level, except for read-only public packages (it won't print the whole
  registry listing)

* ls-collaborators (deprecated):
  Show all of the access privileges for a package. Will only show permissions
  for packages to which you have at least read access. If `<user>` is passed in,
  the list is filtered only to teams _that_ user happens to belong to.

* edit (not implemented)

### Details

`npm access` always operates directly on the current registry, configurable
from the command line using `--registry=<registry url>`.

Unscoped packages are *always public*.

Scoped packages *default to restricted*, but you can either publish them as
public using `npm publish --access=public`, or set their access as public using
`npm access public` after the initial publish.

You must have privileges to set the access of a package:

* You are an owner of an unscoped or scoped package.
* You are a member of the team that owns a scope.
* You have been given read-write privileges for a package, either as a member
  of a team or directly as an owner.

If you have two-factor authentication enabled then you'll be prompted to
provide an otp token, or may use the `--otp=...` option to specify it on
the command line.

If your account is not paid, then attempts to publish scoped packages will
fail with an HTTP 402 status code (logically enough), unless you use
`--access=public`.

Management of teams and team memberships is done with the `npm team` command.

### Configuration

<!-- AUTOGENERATED CONFIG DESCRIPTIONS START -->
<!-- automatically generated, do not edit manually -->
<!-- see lib/utils/config/definitions.js -->
#### `json`

* Default: false
* Type: Boolean

Whether or not to output JSON data, rather than the normal output.

* In `npm pkg set` it enables parsing set values with JSON.parse() before
  saving them to your `package.json`.

Not supported by all npm commands.

<!-- automatically generated, do not edit manually -->
<!-- see lib/utils/config/definitions.js -->

#### `otp`

* Default: null
* Type: null or String

This is a one-time password from a two-factor authenticator. It's needed
when publishing or changing package permissions with `npm access`.

If not set, and a registry response fails with a challenge for a one-time
password, npm will prompt on the command line for one.

<!-- automatically generated, do not edit manually -->
<!-- see lib/utils/config/definitions.js -->

#### `registry`

* Default: "https://registry.npmjs.org/"
* Type: URL

The base URL of the npm registry.

<!-- automatically generated, do not edit manually -->
<!-- see lib/utils/config/definitions.js -->

<!-- AUTOGENERATED CONFIG DESCRIPTIONS END -->

### See Also

* [`libnpmaccess`](https://npm.im/libnpmaccess)
* [npm team](/commands/npm-team)
* [npm publish](/commands/npm-publish)
* [npm config](/commands/npm-config)
* [npm registry](/using-npm/registry)
