docs/lib/content/commands/npm-audit.md, before:

---
title: npm-audit
section: 1
description: Run a security audit
---

### Synopsis

<!-- AUTOGENERATED USAGE DESCRIPTIONS -->

### Description

The audit command submits a description of the dependencies configured in
your project to your default registry and asks for a report of known
vulnerabilities.  If any vulnerabilities are found, then the impact and
appropriate remediation will be calculated.  If the `fix` argument is
provided, then remediations will be applied to the package tree.

The command will exit with a 0 exit code if no vulnerabilities were found.

Note that some vulnerabilities cannot be fixed automatically and will
require manual intervention or review.  Also note that since `npm audit
fix` runs a full-fledged `npm install` under the hood, all configs that
apply to the installer will also apply to `npm install` -- so things like
`npm audit fix --package-lock-only` will work as expected.

By default, the audit command will exit with a non-zero code if any
vulnerability is found. It may be useful in CI environments to include the
`--audit-level` parameter to specify the minimum vulnerability level that
will cause the command to fail. This option does not filter the report
output, it simply changes the command's failure threshold.

### Package lock

By default npm requires a package-lock or shrinkwrap in order to run the
audit.  You can bypass the package lock with `--no-package-lock` but be
aware the results may be different with every run, since npm will
re-build the dependency tree each time.

### Audit Signatures

To ensure the integrity of packages you download from the public npm registry, or any registry that supports signatures, you can verify the registry signatures of downloaded packages using the npm CLI.

Registry signatures can be verified using the following `audit` command:

```bash
$ npm audit signatures
```

The npm CLI supports registry signatures and signing keys provided by any registry if the following conventions are followed:

1. Signatures are provided in the package's `packument` in each published version within the `dist` object:

```json
"dist":{
  "..omitted..": "..omitted..",
  "signatures": [{
    "keyid": "SHA256:{{SHA256_PUBLIC_KEY}}",
    "sig": "a312b9c3cb4a1b693e8ebac5ee1ca9cc01f2661c14391917dcb111517f72370809..."
  }]
}
```

See this [example](https://registry.npmjs.org/light-cycle/1.4.3) of a signed package from the public npm registry.

The `sig` is generated using the following template: `${package.name}@${package.version}:${package.dist.integrity}` and the `keyid` has to match one of the public signing keys below.

2. Public signing keys are provided at `registry-host.tld/-/npm/v1/keys` in the following format:

```
{
  "keys": [{
    "expires": null,
    "keyid": "SHA256:{{SHA256_PUBLIC_KEY}}",
    "keytype": "ecdsa-sha2-nistp256",
    "scheme": "ecdsa-sha2-nistp256",
    "key": "{{B64_PUBLIC_KEY}}"
  }]
}
```

Keys response:

- `expires`: null or a simplified extended [ISO 8601 format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601"): `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss.sssZ`
- `keydid`: sha256 fingerprint of the public key
- `keytype`: only `ecdsa-sha2-nistp256` is currently supported by the npm CLI
- `scheme`: only `ecdsa-sha2-nistp256` is currently supported by the npm CLI
- `key`: base64 encoded public key

See this [example key's response from the public npm registry](https://registry.npmjs.org/-/npm/v1/keys").

### Audit Endpoints

There are two audit endpoints that npm may use to fetch vulnerability
information: the `Bulk Advisory` endpoint and the `Quick Audit` endpoint.

#### Bulk Advisory Endpoint

As of version 7, npm uses the much faster `Bulk Advisory` endpoint to
optimize the speed of calculating audit results.

npm will generate a JSON payload with the name and list of versions of each
package in the tree, and POST it to the default configured registry at
the path `/-/npm/v1/security/advisories/bulk`.

Any packages in the tree that do not have a `version` field in their
package.json file will be ignored.  If any `--omit` options are specified
(either via the [`--omit` config](/using-npm/config#omit), or one of the
shorthands such as `--production`, `--only=dev`, and so on), then packages will
be omitted from the submitted payload as appropriate.

If the registry responds with an error, or with an invalid response, then
npm will attempt to load advisory data from the `Quick Audit` endpoint.

The expected result will contain a set of advisory objects for each
dependency that matches the advisory range.  Each advisory object contains
a `name`, `url`, `id`, `severity`, `vulnerable_versions`, and `title`.

npm then uses these advisory objects to calculate vulnerabilities and
meta-vulnerabilities of the dependencies within the tree.

#### Quick Audit Endpoint

If the `Bulk Advisory` endpoint returns an error, or invalid data, npm will
attempt to load advisory data from the `Quick Audit` endpoint, which is
considerably slower in most cases.

The full package tree as found in `package-lock.json` is submitted, along
with the following pieces of additional metadata:

* `npm_version`
* `node_version`
* `platform`
* `arch`
* `node_env`

All packages in the tree are submitted to the Quick Audit endpoint.
Omitted dependency types are skipped when generating the report.

#### Scrubbing

Out of an abundance of caution, npm versions 5 and 6 would "scrub" any
packages from the submitted report if their name contained a `/` character,
so as to avoid leaking the names of potentially private packages or git
URLs.

However, in practice, this resulted in audits often failing to properly
detect meta-vulnerabilities, because the tree would appear to be invalid
due to missing dependencies, and prevented the detection of vulnerabilities
in package trees that used git dependencies or private modules.

This scrubbing has been removed from npm as of version 7.

#### Calculating Meta-Vulnerabilities and Remediations

npm uses the
[`@npmcli/metavuln-calculator`](http://npm.im/@npmcli/metavuln-calculator)
module to turn a set of security advisories into a set of "vulnerability"
objects.  A "meta-vulnerability" is a dependency that is vulnerable by
virtue of dependence on vulnerable versions of a vulnerable package.

For example, if the package `foo` is vulnerable in the range `>=1.0.2
<2.0.0`, and the package `bar` depends on `foo@^1.1.0`, then that version
of `bar` can only be installed by installing a vulnerable version of `foo`.
In this case, `bar` is a "metavulnerability".

Once metavulnerabilities for a given package are calculated, they are
cached in the `~/.npm` folder and only re-evaluated if the advisory range
changes, or a new version of the package is published (in which case, the
new version is checked for metavulnerable status as well).

If the chain of metavulnerabilities extends all the way to the root
project, and it cannot be updated without changing its dependency ranges,
then `npm audit fix` will require the `--force` option to apply the
remediation.  If remediations do not require changes to the dependency
ranges, then all vulnerable packages will be updated to a version that does
not have an advisory or metavulnerability posted against it.

### Exit Code

The `npm audit` command will exit with a 0 exit code if no vulnerabilities
were found.  The `npm audit fix` command will exit with 0 exit code if no
vulnerabilities are found _or_ if the remediation is able to successfully
fix all vulnerabilities.

If vulnerabilities were found the exit code will depend on the
[`audit-level` config](/using-npm/config#audit-level).

### Examples

Scan your project for vulnerabilities and automatically install any compatible
updates to vulnerable dependencies:

```bash
$ npm audit fix
```

Run `audit fix` without modifying `node_modules`, but still updating the
pkglock:

```bash
$ npm audit fix --package-lock-only
```

Skip updating `devDependencies`:

```bash
$ npm audit fix --only=prod
```

Have `audit fix` install SemVer-major updates to toplevel dependencies, not
just SemVer-compatible ones:

```bash
$ npm audit fix --force
```

Do a dry run to get an idea of what `audit fix` will do, and _also_ output
install information in JSON format:

```bash
$ npm audit fix --dry-run --json
```

Scan your project for vulnerabilities and just show the details, without
fixing anything:

```bash
$ npm audit
```

Get the detailed audit report in JSON format:

```bash
$ npm audit --json
```

Fail an audit only if the results include a vulnerability with a level of moderate or higher:

```bash
$ npm audit --audit-level=moderate
```

### Configuration

<!-- AUTOGENERATED CONFIG DESCRIPTIONS -->

### See Also

* [npm install](/commands/npm-install)
* [config](/using-npm/config)

Commit message:

docs: update audit docs with provenance info (#7304)
Adds a note to the `audit` docs discussing the verification of
provenance attestations.

Per: https://github.com/npm/documentation/pull/1010

Signed-off-by: Brian DeHamer <bdehamer@github.com>

docs/lib/content/commands/npm-audit.md, after:

---
title: npm-audit
section: 1
description: Run a security audit
---

### Synopsis

<!-- AUTOGENERATED USAGE DESCRIPTIONS -->

### Description

The audit command submits a description of the dependencies configured in
your project to your default registry and asks for a report of known
vulnerabilities.  If any vulnerabilities are found, then the impact and
appropriate remediation will be calculated.  If the `fix` argument is
provided, then remediations will be applied to the package tree.

The command will exit with a 0 exit code if no vulnerabilities were found.

Note that some vulnerabilities cannot be fixed automatically and will
require manual intervention or review.  Also note that since `npm audit
fix` runs a full-fledged `npm install` under the hood, all configs that
apply to the installer will also apply to `npm install` -- so things like
`npm audit fix --package-lock-only` will work as expected.

By default, the audit command will exit with a non-zero code if any
vulnerability is found. It may be useful in CI environments to include the
`--audit-level` parameter to specify the minimum vulnerability level that
will cause the command to fail. This option does not filter the report
output, it simply changes the command's failure threshold.

### Package lock

By default npm requires a package-lock or shrinkwrap in order to run the
audit.  You can bypass the package lock with `--no-package-lock` but be
aware the results may be different with every run, since npm will
re-build the dependency tree each time.

### Audit Signatures

To ensure the integrity of packages you download from the public npm registry, or any registry that supports signatures, you can verify the registry signatures of downloaded packages using the npm CLI.

Registry signatures can be verified using the following `audit` command:

```bash
$ npm audit signatures
```

The `audit signatures` command will also verify the provenance attestations of
downloaded packages. Because provenance attestations are such a new feature,
security features may be added to (or changed in) the attestation format over
time. To ensure that you're always able to verify attestation signatures check
that you're running the latest version of the npm CLI. Please note this often
means updating npm beyond the version that ships with Node.js.

The npm CLI supports registry signatures and signing keys provided by any registry if the following conventions are followed:

1. Signatures are provided in the package's `packument` in each published version within the `dist` object:

```json
"dist":{
  "..omitted..": "..omitted..",
  "signatures": [{
    "keyid": "SHA256:{{SHA256_PUBLIC_KEY}}",
    "sig": "a312b9c3cb4a1b693e8ebac5ee1ca9cc01f2661c14391917dcb111517f72370809..."
  }]
}
```

See this [example](https://registry.npmjs.org/light-cycle/1.4.3) of a signed package from the public npm registry.

The `sig` is generated using the following template: `${package.name}@${package.version}:${package.dist.integrity}` and the `keyid` has to match one of the public signing keys below.

2. Public signing keys are provided at `registry-host.tld/-/npm/v1/keys` in the following format:

```
{
  "keys": [{
    "expires": null,
    "keyid": "SHA256:{{SHA256_PUBLIC_KEY}}",
    "keytype": "ecdsa-sha2-nistp256",
    "scheme": "ecdsa-sha2-nistp256",
    "key": "{{B64_PUBLIC_KEY}}"
  }]
}
```

Keys response:

- `expires`: null or a simplified extended [ISO 8601 format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601"): `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss.sssZ`
- `keydid`: sha256 fingerprint of the public key
- `keytype`: only `ecdsa-sha2-nistp256` is currently supported by the npm CLI
- `scheme`: only `ecdsa-sha2-nistp256` is currently supported by the npm CLI
- `key`: base64 encoded public key

See this [example key's response from the public npm registry](https://registry.npmjs.org/-/npm/v1/keys").

### Audit Endpoints

There are two audit endpoints that npm may use to fetch vulnerability
information: the `Bulk Advisory` endpoint and the `Quick Audit` endpoint.

#### Bulk Advisory Endpoint

As of version 7, npm uses the much faster `Bulk Advisory` endpoint to
optimize the speed of calculating audit results.

npm will generate a JSON payload with the name and list of versions of each
package in the tree, and POST it to the default configured registry at
the path `/-/npm/v1/security/advisories/bulk`.

Any packages in the tree that do not have a `version` field in their
package.json file will be ignored.  If any `--omit` options are specified
(either via the [`--omit` config](/using-npm/config#omit), or one of the
shorthands such as `--production`, `--only=dev`, and so on), then packages will
be omitted from the submitted payload as appropriate.

If the registry responds with an error, or with an invalid response, then
npm will attempt to load advisory data from the `Quick Audit` endpoint.

The expected result will contain a set of advisory objects for each
dependency that matches the advisory range.  Each advisory object contains
a `name`, `url`, `id`, `severity`, `vulnerable_versions`, and `title`.

npm then uses these advisory objects to calculate vulnerabilities and
meta-vulnerabilities of the dependencies within the tree.

#### Quick Audit Endpoint

If the `Bulk Advisory` endpoint returns an error, or invalid data, npm will
attempt to load advisory data from the `Quick Audit` endpoint, which is
considerably slower in most cases.

The full package tree as found in `package-lock.json` is submitted, along
with the following pieces of additional metadata:

* `npm_version`
* `node_version`
* `platform`
* `arch`
* `node_env`

All packages in the tree are submitted to the Quick Audit endpoint.
Omitted dependency types are skipped when generating the report.

#### Scrubbing

Out of an abundance of caution, npm versions 5 and 6 would "scrub" any
packages from the submitted report if their name contained a `/` character,
so as to avoid leaking the names of potentially private packages or git
URLs.

However, in practice, this resulted in audits often failing to properly
detect meta-vulnerabilities, because the tree would appear to be invalid
due to missing dependencies, and prevented the detection of vulnerabilities
in package trees that used git dependencies or private modules.

This scrubbing has been removed from npm as of version 7.

#### Calculating Meta-Vulnerabilities and Remediations

npm uses the
[`@npmcli/metavuln-calculator`](http://npm.im/@npmcli/metavuln-calculator)
module to turn a set of security advisories into a set of "vulnerability"
objects.  A "meta-vulnerability" is a dependency that is vulnerable by
virtue of dependence on vulnerable versions of a vulnerable package.

For example, if the package `foo` is vulnerable in the range `>=1.0.2
<2.0.0`, and the package `bar` depends on `foo@^1.1.0`, then that version
of `bar` can only be installed by installing a vulnerable version of `foo`.
In this case, `bar` is a "metavulnerability".

Once metavulnerabilities for a given package are calculated, they are
cached in the `~/.npm` folder and only re-evaluated if the advisory range
changes, or a new version of the package is published (in which case, the
new version is checked for metavulnerable status as well).

If the chain of metavulnerabilities extends all the way to the root
project, and it cannot be updated without changing its dependency ranges,
then `npm audit fix` will require the `--force` option to apply the
remediation.  If remediations do not require changes to the dependency
ranges, then all vulnerable packages will be updated to a version that does
not have an advisory or metavulnerability posted against it.

### Exit Code

The `npm audit` command will exit with a 0 exit code if no vulnerabilities
were found.  The `npm audit fix` command will exit with 0 exit code if no
vulnerabilities are found _or_ if the remediation is able to successfully
fix all vulnerabilities.

If vulnerabilities were found the exit code will depend on the
[`audit-level` config](/using-npm/config#audit-level).

### Examples

Scan your project for vulnerabilities and automatically install any compatible
updates to vulnerable dependencies:

```bash
$ npm audit fix
```

Run `audit fix` without modifying `node_modules`, but still updating the
pkglock:

```bash
$ npm audit fix --package-lock-only
```

Skip updating `devDependencies`:

```bash
$ npm audit fix --only=prod
```

Have `audit fix` install SemVer-major updates to toplevel dependencies, not
just SemVer-compatible ones:

```bash
$ npm audit fix --force
```

Do a dry run to get an idea of what `audit fix` will do, and _also_ output
install information in JSON format:

```bash
$ npm audit fix --dry-run --json
```

Scan your project for vulnerabilities and just show the details, without
fixing anything:

```bash
$ npm audit
```

Get the detailed audit report in JSON format:

```bash
$ npm audit --json
```

Fail an audit only if the results include a vulnerability with a level of moderate or higher:

```bash
$ npm audit --audit-level=moderate
```

### Configuration

<!-- AUTOGENERATED CONFIG DESCRIPTIONS -->

### See Also

* [npm install](/commands/npm-install)
* [config](/using-npm/config)
