docs/lib/content/commands/npm-unpublish.md, before:

---
title: npm-unpublish
section: 1
description: Remove a package from the registry
---

### Synopsis

<!-- AUTOGENERATED USAGE DESCRIPTIONS -->

To learn more about how the npm registry treats unpublish, see our
[unpublish policies](https://docs.npmjs.com/policies/unpublish).

### Warning

Consider using the [`deprecate`](/commands/npm-deprecate) command instead,
if your intent is to encourage users to upgrade, or if you no longer
want to maintain a package.

### Description

This removes a package version from the registry, deleting its entry and
removing the tarball.

The npm registry will return an error if you are not [logged
in](/commands/npm-adduser).

If you do not specify a version or if you remove all of a package's
versions then the registry will remove the root package entry entirely.

Even if you unpublish a package version, that specific name and version
combination can never be reused. In order to publish the package again,
you must use a new version number. If you unpublish the entire package,
you may not publish any new versions of that package until 24 hours have
passed.

### Configuration

<!-- AUTOGENERATED CONFIG DESCRIPTIONS -->

### See Also

* [package spec](/using-npm/package-spec)
* [npm deprecate](/commands/npm-deprecate)
* [npm publish](/commands/npm-publish)
* [npm registry](/using-npm/registry)
* [npm adduser](/commands/npm-adduser)
* [npm owner](/commands/npm-owner)
* [npm login](/commands/npm-adduser)

Commit message:

fix: unpublish bugfixes
 - Properly work in workspace mode.  Previously setting the workspace
  meant the entire package was unpublished.  Now it follows the
  convention of acting as if you were running from the workspace
  directory.
 - Better checking of when you are unpublishing the last version of a
  package.  npm checks the actual manifest and compares it to the
  version you are asking to unpublish.
 - Error on ranges and tags.  npm doesn't unpublish ranges or tags, and
   giving those as inputs would give unexepected results.
 - Proper output of what was unpublished.  Previously the package (and
   sometimes version) displayed would not match what was actually
   unpublished.
 - Updated docs specifying that unpublishing with no parameters will
   only unpublish the version represented by the local package.json

docs/lib/content/commands/npm-unpublish.md, after:

---
title: npm-unpublish
section: 1
description: Remove a package from the registry
---

### Synopsis

<!-- AUTOGENERATED USAGE DESCRIPTIONS -->

To learn more about how the npm registry treats unpublish, see our
[unpublish policies](https://docs.npmjs.com/policies/unpublish).

### Warning

Consider using the [`deprecate`](/commands/npm-deprecate) command instead,
if your intent is to encourage users to upgrade, or if you no longer
want to maintain a package.

### Description

This removes a package version from the registry, deleting its entry and
removing the tarball.

The npm registry will return an error if you are not [logged
in](/commands/npm-adduser).

If you do not specify a package name at all, the name and version to be
unpublished will be pulled from the project in the current directory.

If you specify a package name but do not specify a version or if you
remove all of a package's versions then the registry will remove the
root package entry entirely.

Even if you unpublish a package version, that specific name and version
combination can never be reused. In order to publish the package again,
you must use a new version number. If you unpublish the entire package,
you may not publish any new versions of that package until 24 hours have
passed.

### Configuration

<!-- AUTOGENERATED CONFIG DESCRIPTIONS -->

### See Also

* [package spec](/using-npm/package-spec)
* [npm deprecate](/commands/npm-deprecate)
* [npm publish](/commands/npm-publish)
* [npm registry](/using-npm/registry)
* [npm adduser](/commands/npm-adduser)
* [npm owner](/commands/npm-owner)
* [npm login](/commands/npm-adduser)
