doc/cli/npm-version.md, before:

npm-version(1) -- Bump a package version
========================================

## SYNOPSIS

    npm version [<newversion> | major | minor | patch | premajor | preminor | prepatch | prerelease [--preid=<prerelease-id>] | from-git]

    'npm [-v | --version]' to print npm version
    'npm view <pkg> version' to view a package's published version
    'npm ls' to inspect current package/dependency versions

## DESCRIPTION

Run this in a package directory to bump the version and write the new
data back to `package.json`, `package-lock.json`, and, if present, `npm-shrinkwrap.json`.

The `newversion` argument should be a valid semver string, a
valid second argument to [semver.inc](https://github.com/npm/node-semver#functions) (one of `patch`, `minor`, `major`,
`prepatch`, `preminor`, `premajor`, `prerelease`), or `from-git`. In the second case,
the existing version will be incremented by 1 in the specified field.
`from-git` will try to read the latest git tag, and use that as the new npm version.

If run in a git repo, it will also create a version commit and tag.
This behavior is controlled by `git-tag-version` (see below), and can
be disabled on the command line by running `npm --no-git-tag-version version`.
It will fail if the working directory is not clean, unless the `-f` or
`--force` flag is set.

If supplied with `-m` or `--message` config option, npm will
use it as a commit message when creating a version commit.  If the
`message` config contains `%s` then that will be replaced with the
resulting version number.  For example:

    npm version patch -m "Upgrade to %s for reasons"

If the `sign-git-tag` config is set, then the tag will be signed using
the `-s` flag to git.  Note that you must have a default GPG key set up
in your git config for this to work properly.  For example:

    $ npm config set sign-git-tag true
    $ npm version patch

    You need a passphrase to unlock the secret key for
    user: "isaacs (http://blog.izs.me/) <i@izs.me>"
    2048-bit RSA key, ID 6C481CF6, created 2010-08-31

    Enter passphrase:

If `preversion`, `version`, or `postversion` are in the `scripts` property of
the package.json, they will be executed as part of running `npm version`.

The exact order of execution is as follows:
  1. Check to make sure the git working directory is clean before we get started.
     Your scripts may add files to the commit in future steps.
     This step is skipped if the `--force` flag is set.
  2. Run the `preversion` script. These scripts have access to the old `version` in package.json.
     A typical use would be running your full test suite before deploying.
     Any files you want added to the commit should be explicitly added using `git add`.
  3. Bump `version` in `package.json` as requested (`patch`, `minor`, `major`, etc).
  4. Run the `version` script. These scripts have access to the new `version` in package.json
     (so they can incorporate it into file headers in generated files for example).
     Again, scripts should explicitly add generated files to the commit using `git add`.
  5. Commit and tag.
  6. Run the `postversion` script. Use it to clean up the file system or automatically push
     the commit and/or tag.

Take the following example:

    "scripts": {
      "preversion": "npm test",
      "version": "npm run build && git add -A dist",
      "postversion": "git push && git push --tags && rm -rf build/temp"
    }

This runs all your tests, and proceeds only if they pass. Then runs your `build` script, and
adds everything in the `dist` directory to the commit. After the commit, it pushes the new commit
and tag up to the server, and deletes the `build/temp` directory.

## CONFIGURATION

### allow-same-version

* Default: false
* Type: Boolean

Prevents throwing an error when `npm version` is used to set the new version 
to the same value as the current version.

### git-tag-version

* Default: true
* Type: Boolean

Commit and tag the version change.

### commit-hooks

* Default: true
* Type: Boolean

Run git commit hooks when committing the version change.

### sign-git-tag

* Default: false
* Type: Boolean

Pass the `-s` flag to git to sign the tag.

Note that you must have a default GPG key set up in your git config for this to work properly.

## SEE ALSO

* npm-init(1)
* npm-run-script(1)
* npm-scripts(7)
* package.json(5)
* semver(7)
* config(7)

Commit message:

version: update lock before lifecycle
Update version information in lock files before the main `version` 
lifecycle script is run.

See https://npm.community/t/5135

doc/cli/npm-version.md, after:

npm-version(1) -- Bump a package version
========================================

## SYNOPSIS

    npm version [<newversion> | major | minor | patch | premajor | preminor | prepatch | prerelease [--preid=<prerelease-id>] | from-git]

    'npm [-v | --version]' to print npm version
    'npm view <pkg> version' to view a package's published version
    'npm ls' to inspect current package/dependency versions

## DESCRIPTION

Run this in a package directory to bump the version and write the new
data back to `package.json`, `package-lock.json`, and, if present, `npm-shrinkwrap.json`.

The `newversion` argument should be a valid semver string, a
valid second argument to [semver.inc](https://github.com/npm/node-semver#functions) (one of `patch`, `minor`, `major`,
`prepatch`, `preminor`, `premajor`, `prerelease`), or `from-git`. In the second case,
the existing version will be incremented by 1 in the specified field.
`from-git` will try to read the latest git tag, and use that as the new npm version.

If run in a git repo, it will also create a version commit and tag.
This behavior is controlled by `git-tag-version` (see below), and can
be disabled on the command line by running `npm --no-git-tag-version version`.
It will fail if the working directory is not clean, unless the `-f` or
`--force` flag is set.

If supplied with `-m` or `--message` config option, npm will
use it as a commit message when creating a version commit.  If the
`message` config contains `%s` then that will be replaced with the
resulting version number.  For example:

    npm version patch -m "Upgrade to %s for reasons"

If the `sign-git-tag` config is set, then the tag will be signed using
the `-s` flag to git.  Note that you must have a default GPG key set up
in your git config for this to work properly.  For example:

    $ npm config set sign-git-tag true
    $ npm version patch

    You need a passphrase to unlock the secret key for
    user: "isaacs (http://blog.izs.me/) <i@izs.me>"
    2048-bit RSA key, ID 6C481CF6, created 2010-08-31

    Enter passphrase:

If `preversion`, `version`, or `postversion` are in the `scripts` property of
the package.json, they will be executed as part of running `npm version`.

The exact order of execution is as follows:
  1. Check to make sure the git working directory is clean before we get started.
     Your scripts may add files to the commit in future steps.
     This step is skipped if the `--force` flag is set.
  2. Run the `preversion` script. These scripts have access to the old `version` in `package.json`.
     A typical use would be running your full test suite before deploying.
     Any files you want added to the commit should be explicitly added using `git add`.
  3. Bump `version` in `package.json` as requested (`patch`, `minor`, `major`, etc).
     Also updates `npm-shrinkwrap.json` or `package-lock.json` if present.
  4. Run the `version` script. These scripts have access to the new `version` in `package.json`
     (so they can incorporate it into file headers in generated files for example).
     Again, scripts should explicitly add generated files to the commit using `git add`.
  5. Commit and tag.
  6. Run the `postversion` script. Use it to clean up the file system or automatically push
     the commit and/or tag.

Take the following example:

    "scripts": {
      "preversion": "npm test",
      "version": "npm run build && git add -A dist",
      "postversion": "git push && git push --tags && rm -rf build/temp"
    }

This runs all your tests, and proceeds only if they pass. Then runs your `build` script, and
adds everything in the `dist` directory to the commit. After the commit, it pushes the new commit
and tag up to the server, and deletes the `build/temp` directory.

## CONFIGURATION

### allow-same-version

* Default: false
* Type: Boolean

Prevents throwing an error when `npm version` is used to set the new version 
to the same value as the current version.

### git-tag-version

* Default: true
* Type: Boolean

Commit and tag the version change.

### commit-hooks

* Default: true
* Type: Boolean

Run git commit hooks when committing the version change.

### sign-git-tag

* Default: false
* Type: Boolean

Pass the `-s` flag to git to sign the tag.

Note that you must have a default GPG key set up in your git config for this to work properly.

## SEE ALSO

* npm-init(1)
* npm-run-script(1)
* npm-scripts(7)
* package.json(5)
* semver(7)
* config(7)
