doc/cli/npm-access.md, before:

npm-access(1) -- Set access level on published packages
=======================================================

## SYNOPSIS

    npm access public [<package>]
    npm access restricted [<package>]

    npm access grant <read-only|read-write> <scope:team> [<package>]
    npm access revoke <scope:team> [<package>]

    npm access ls-packages [<user>|<scope>|<scope:team>]
    npm access ls-collaborators [<package> [<user>]]
    npm access edit [<package>]

## DESCRIPTION

Used to set access controls on private packages.

For all of the subcommands, `npm access` will perform actions on the packages
in the current working directory if no package name is passed to the
subcommand.

* public / restricted:
  Set a package to be either publicly accessible or restricted.

* grant / revoke:
  Add or remove the ability of users and teams to have read-only or read-write
  access to a package.

* ls-packages:
  Show all of the packages a user or a team is able to access, along with the
  access level, except for read-only public packages (it won't print the whole
  registry listing)

* ls-collaborators:
  Show all of the access privileges for a package. Will only show permissions
  for packages to which you have at least read access. If `<user>` is passed in,
  the list is filtered only to teams _that_ user happens to belong to.

* edit:
  Set the access privileges for a package at once using `$EDITOR`.

## DETAILS

`npm access` always operates directly on the current registry, configurable
from the command line using `--registry=<registry url>`.

Unscoped packages are *always public*.

Scoped packages *default to restricted*, but you can either publish them as
public using `npm publish --access=public`, or set their access as public using
`npm access public` after the initial publish.

You must have privileges to set the access of a package:

* You are an owner of an unscoped or scoped package.
* You are a member of the team that owns a scope.
* You have been given read-write privileges for a package, either as a member
  of a team or directly as an owner.

If you have two-factor authentication enabled then you'll have to pass in an
otp with `--otp` when making access changes.

If your account is not paid, then attempts to publish scoped packages will fail
with an HTTP 402 status code (logically enough), unless you use
`--access=public`.

Management of teams and team memberships is done with the `npm team` command.

## SEE ALSO

* npm-team(1)
* npm-publish(1)
* npm-config(7)
* npm-registry(7)

Commit message:

access: Add support for requiring per-package 2fa

doc/cli/npm-access.md, after:

npm-access(1) -- Set access level on published packages
=======================================================

## SYNOPSIS

    npm access public [<package>]
    npm access restricted [<package>]

    npm access 2fa-required [<package>]
    npm access 2fa-not-required [<package>]

    npm access grant <read-only|read-write> <scope:team> [<package>]
    npm access revoke <scope:team> [<package>]

    npm access ls-packages [<user>|<scope>|<scope:team>]
    npm access ls-collaborators [<package> [<user>]]
    npm access edit [<package>]

## DESCRIPTION

Used to set access controls on private packages.

For all of the subcommands, `npm access` will perform actions on the packages
in the current working directory if no package name is passed to the
subcommand.

* public / restricted:
  Set a package to be either publicly accessible or restricted.

* 2fa-required / 2fa-not-required:
  Set a package as requiring or not requiring that the publisher have two
  factor authentication enabled on their account.

* grant / revoke:
  Add or remove the ability of users and teams to have read-only or read-write
  access to a package.

* ls-packages:
  Show all of the packages a user or a team is able to access, along with the
  access level, except for read-only public packages (it won't print the whole
  registry listing)

* ls-collaborators:
  Show all of the access privileges for a package. Will only show permissions
  for packages to which you have at least read access. If `<user>` is passed in,
  the list is filtered only to teams _that_ user happens to belong to.

* edit:
  Set the access privileges for a package at once using `$EDITOR`.

## DETAILS

`npm access` always operates directly on the current registry, configurable
from the command line using `--registry=<registry url>`.

Unscoped packages are *always public*.

Scoped packages *default to restricted*, but you can either publish them as
public using `npm publish --access=public`, or set their access as public using
`npm access public` after the initial publish.

You must have privileges to set the access of a package:

* You are an owner of an unscoped or scoped package.
* You are a member of the team that owns a scope.
* You have been given read-write privileges for a package, either as a member
  of a team or directly as an owner.

If you have two-factor authentication enabled then you'll have to pass in an
otp with `--otp` when making access changes.

If your account is not paid, then attempts to publish scoped packages will fail
with an HTTP 402 status code (logically enough), unless you use
`--access=public`.

Management of teams and team memberships is done with the `npm team` command.

## SEE ALSO

* npm-team(1)
* npm-publish(1)
* npm-config(7)
* npm-registry(7)
